# wpt RFCs/infra sync

* Notes archive: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt-notes/tree/master/minutes

* RFCs: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs

* Infra issues: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Ainfra+-label%3Adependencies

## Agenda Items

### Add get_all_cookies/get_named_cookie infra 

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/36171

Panos: Requires review
gsnedders: Did we have an RFC?
No
foolip: Do we need an RFC given that it's just a webdriver command that's already in the spec? Do we have a policy? Don't mention testdriver in the guidelines?
gsnedders: There could be implementations that don't use WebDriver. All current ones do, except Servo which we could theoretically ignore. I don't have a strong opinion. Don't expect there to be an objection here. 
jgraham: Point of an RFC in this case would be to communicate with people implementing other integrations (e.g. Chromium / WebKit), not really technical decisions making
foolip: Could send out post-hoc notification in cases like this?
jgraham: I think we could have an RFC to always accept direct WebDriver mappings. But I don't want to be the person who suggests how to communicate that those changes have been made.
panos: Could we use these meetings to provide that communication? e.g. I could use these meetings to communicate these decisions to Chromoium's WebDriver team. Might be easier to move faster with a lighter process.
gsnedders: Is the current process heavy weight? We have historically been bad at closing them
panos: There's also the time overhead of a week.
foolip: How about we send an RFC to allow doing this in the future, and for this specific one we accept and send an PSA as an issue, like we will for future ones?
jgraham: Waiting for the meeting adds latency itself. It's also not clear how to get it onto the agenda. But the proposer could make the RFC at the same time as the code review. But that is real overhead.
zcorpan: We could merge the PR without waiting for the RFC and revert if needed.
panos: Main concern is that we don't want to waste time.
foolip: I'm writing a PR that updates the readme. For this specific change could we do a PSA issue on the RFCs repo? In this case since we've discussed it we could just go ahead.
jgraham: We could use a GH label on the issue and say "if you're just adding a testdriver endpoint that directly corresponds to a WebDriver endpoint you don't need an RFC but you do add the label". That would solve the communication endpoint.
panos: the PR has a testdriver.js label already.
foolip: Just sent https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/123, is that OK?
gsnedders: We should also require tests under infrastructure/
jgraham: I think we've missed failures there before
gsnedders: I expect it to be more reliable than anything else for me.
foolip: I sent a PR for the README, do we also need an RFC?
jgraham: I think there should be an RFC with the detailed requirements.

### RFC 121: Add testdriver.js support for Custom Handlers registration

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/121

jgraham: This is a case where the WebDriver endpoints are themselves waiting for review in other specs.
jgraham: Seems like per the previous discssion, it seems like if the endpoints are added in HTML then we would implicitly accept it.
gsnedders: Do we oppose adding it before it's added to HTML?
jgraham: Yes.
Panos: I don't know what the historical process is here.
gsnedders: In the past things have landed in WebDriver first and then years have passed and then they got to testdriver.
Panos: Don't want the HTML changes to block on us.
jgraham: Two sets of tests. There should be tests in webdriver/ to test the WebDriver endpoint and then later tests in infrastrucutre/ to test the testdriver implementation.
Panos: Do the tests in the PR match this? Looks like it's missing those tests.
gsendders: Yes, it is, but maybe it doesn't matter?
Panos: What do we require?
jgraham: Tests in webdriver/ to verify the implementation independent of testdriver, and then enough tests in infrastructure/ to validate that the testdriver implementation is working even with non-WebDriver backends.
Panos: Can we approve the RFC and then wait to merge the actual PR until HTML is updated, or what's the sequence?
jgraham: HTML changes first, then the RFC (which won't be required), then the testdriver PR
gsendders: But HTML requires the test changes to land, so everything has to be atomic.
Panos: There are different people in each stage, so we don't want to frustrate them by figuring out the order.
jgraham: Ordering is first webdriver/ tests for the HTML endpoint additions, then infrastructure tests plus the testdriver implementation, then tests that depend on the testdriver implementation. Only circular if you try to write a HTML PR that both adds endpoints and also functionality that depends on those endpoints for testing.
gsnedders: I was assuming we were in that case.
jgraham: Easiest way to deal with that would be to split the HTML PR in two, so the webdriver endpoints can land first. For a totally new feature that might not work, and we'd be relaxed about the ordering.
Panos: We should solve this specific problem rather than a general problem.
jgraham: Sounds like we should comment on the RFC to say that we'll accept it automatically once the HTML change is accepted, but there should be webdriver tests and infrastructure tests.

### Infrastrucuture issue

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/36252

jgraham: I filed above PR to fix infrastrucutre metadata. I'm not sure it's right.
gsnedders: I also filed a PR to fix infrastructure. That should fix the Chrome and Safari fails. https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/36250
jgraham: I could land mine and then you could rebase?
gsnedders: I can deal with merge conflicts.
jgraham: Sounds like a plan.
gsnedders: Then I can land my other PR that changes wptrunner.
