# wpt RFCs/infra sync

## Agenda Items


### RFC 121: Add testdriver.js support for Custom Handlers registration

Javier: The idea is to allow testing custom handlers. After some discussion, we realised there was a similar webdriver command for secure payment authentication that allows auto-reply. Want the same for custom handlers prompt.
jgraham: If the patch in HTML lands then we'll be happy to add the testdriver integration.
Javier: Positive feedback from Domenic and foolip, but need feedback from implementors. Might send an Intent to Prototype for Chrome; already have a simple ChromeDriver patch that fixes this enough for some tests to work. If we get positive feedback, then from Chromium side there shouldn't be a problem. Filed a Mozilla standards position and Marionette bug.
jgraham: I will try to put some thoughts into the Mozilla standards position relatively soon. BiDi would be a better solution, but it's not going to be ready in time. Some concerns around lots of one-off prompt handlers.
Javier: Need more meetings or is GH OK?
Ms2ger: GH should be fine.

### New admin

Panos: Asked for agreement to add James Scott, (@jcscottiii) as a new wpt admin from the Chrome team. Tomorrow is one week mark, and plan to proceed then if there's no disagreement.
jgraham: No objections from me. Don't think we have a formal process on how long these requests have to wait. 
Panos: Maybe we can have a discussion in the future about formalising the process here.

### TaskCluster Issues

jgraham: Status is that there was a server-side bug on TC. It's fixed in the repo, but not deployed yet. Expecting it to be deployed today or tomorrow.
gsnedders: When jgraham was on PTO who should we have asked about this?
jgraham: There's a matrix channel for TC, we've previously had success just asking directly in that. Maybe should also be another contact on the Mozilla side; I can think about who that should be.
gsnedders: Should at least document the Matrix channel.
jgraham: I can document that, but I'm not sure where to put it so that people actually find it at the right time.
past: We have a dashboard on the Google side; we could add the link there.
jgraham: https://chat.mozilla.org/#/room/#taskcluster:mozilla.org
past: https://ecosystem-infra-rotation.appspot.com/
gsnedders: Could link to the existing documentation about who owns what so that that's actually kept up to date.
jgraham: I'll look for the existing documentation and put it in the matrix channel so we can update it.

### RFC 119: Allow wptrunner to retry tests with unexpected results

jgraham: Request from the Chrome team to allow retrying tests with unexpected results to handle intermittents. Approved by Ms2ger. I had some comments but they're supposed to be addressed; assuming that's the case then I'll approve and then per process we can merge.

### RFC 115: Add a new test method that returns AbortSignal 

Ms2ger: We discussed in July. Main concern is still around feature detection. I don't think that needs to block the RFC.
jgraham: Looks like we were hoping for feedback from smaug. Not sure if that's actually blocking. I will check if we're going to get moew input, but if not it seems like there's enough consensus to merge.


### RFC 91: [testdriver] RemoteContext object 

jgraham: Looks like this requires some updates for the way that handling remotes actually landed. I think it still makes sense as an API, but it's perhaps not high priority at the moment; OK with leaving this for now.
past: Looks uncontroversial, but that seems OK.
Ms2ger: Looks like there's an implementation linked?
jgraham: I think that's the infrastructure piece, but didn't end up implementing the API in the RFC to use it with testdriver commands.

### RFC 81: Add testdriver.js support for forcing JS Self-Profiler sampling

jgraham: This is adding a webdriver endpoint in a WICG draft to wpt. That's unlikley to be implemented in Gecko, but does that block adding it in testdriver?
gsnedders: Historically we haven't cared much, as long as it doesn't add additional burden to wpt.
Ms2ger: Is this implemented anywhere?
past: Does seem to ship in Blink, but I haven't confirmed.
jgraham: Does that include the WebDriver endpoint? I think there's an internal testing API in blink. Arguably if there's only one implementor interested at the moment then making the tests internal only isn't such a problem in the short term
Ms2ger: I think if there's one implementor interested, and it's pretty low footprint then I wouldn't object to adding it.
past: Could ping the issue and see if the author is still interested.
jgraham: I think it's OK to merge this if the proposed WebDriver API is implemented in at least one browser so that the tests actually run.

### RFC 75: async_promise_test

jgraham: Last status update was https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/75#issuecomment-826877285 Since then we've had some support from end users, but no progress on resolving issues. Ran out of time to figure out how to progress this.
