# wpt RFCs/infra sync

* Notes archive: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt-notes/tree/master/minutes

* RFCs: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs

* Infra issues: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Ainfra+-label%3Adependencies

## Agenda Items for June 6th, 2023

Attendees: Weizhong Xia, Panos Astithas, Sam Sneddon, James Graham, James Scott 

### Safari Runs on Azure [Link](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/40085)

jgraham: Let's start with a status update. When we run Safari, one in four jobs hang and lose contact and never complete. As a result, we're getting complete safari runs every 5 days. Have to manually restart things. Tried to add some config to auto retry the tasks. But it doesn't work. Philip mentioned that we can talk to the MSFT person. That person pointed out a similar bug that hasn't been touched in a year.
sam: PR runs are fine. Only the master runs are failing. Haven't had much time to dig into this. The main situation is without any further insight, it's hard to see how to make much progression
jgraham: I wonder if we increase the chunks
sam: That did not make it better. It's not consistent to which job fails.
jgraham: We should file an issue. We have logs to point out when it exactly failed.
sam: The error message suggests that it's more a Azure Pipelines issue. Not our issue. Looks like we got two rounds after moving to Mac OS 13. Then it became flaky. Tried with smaller chnuks and it failed.

Next steps:
- jgraham: to file the issue
- sam: to update it.
- jgraham: In the meantime, have someone to re-run the tasks in Azure once a day. It will take a couple of attempts. Need to check that it works.
- jcscottiii: Get Azure pipeline permissions (talk to Philip)

#### Sub-conversation raised by Panos: clarity on who's on the hook to fix things in these cases

panos: Want to get clarity on who's on the hook to fix things in these cases
jgraham: haven't formally had the conversation. Assumption is the browser POC is the first contact to fix it. In this case, MSFT may be that contact for this case since they own Azure pipeline.
panos: does that align with you, sam?
sam: yes. in the past, we have had the chromium changes.
panos: Want to pick who is driving the status updates (not necessarily doing the fixing but driving its resolution)
jgraham: in the worst case scenario, we are looking at bigger changes.
jcscottiii: Should we have SLOs. Don't have to be short
panos: not now. But in the future.
jgraham: if this does go on for too long, we can just add something to the UI that mentions that there's a problem
sam: Any idea of what happened with the Edge runs?
jgraham: Was just a coincidence. Around the same time the virtualenv broke.

Conclusion:
- Agreement: Browser contact will be the one leading the issue for that browser's test results
- If this goes on for too long, just add a banner to the wpt.fyi website to let users know we are aware of the issue

### Mobile Investigation Score Update

On https://wpt.fyi/interop-2023, the mobile investigation score still shows as 0%. What should we update that to?

jgraham: we set up the [roadmap](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/interop-2023-mobile-testing). Between point 2 and point 3 of the roadmap. 40%.

Next steps: jcscotiii - put PR up to update it.

panos: We initially heard back that we wouldn't get extra capacity. But the Edge team is still working on it.

### RFC 149: Support reftest variants [Link](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/149)

jgraham: Need a week before we merge this. Two more days to argue this.
Next steps: jcscott : if it hasn't been merged by monday, will merge then. (If there is no disagreement for it) 

### RFC 138: support subsuites in wptrunner [Link](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/138)

Weizhong - We are blocked by a new release of mozlog. Plan for next steps?
jgraham - nothing is blocking. it just fell off the radar. We just need to push it to PyPI.
Weizhong - there needs to be additional wptrunner changes?
jgraham - There are some bits there are not quite ready. Probably ready for a first round of feedback and double check if it still works
Weizhong - I put some comments in there.
jgraham - Nothing blocking. Just time.
Weizhong - On our side, it's urgent for the switch
jgraham - We also have some use cases for it as well. If implementing switching test types is implementable, it's fine


Next steps: jgraham to do the mozlog release and update the PR

### RFC 131: Add RFC to disable Chromium stability checks [Link](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/131)

panos: we can merge this now.
jgraham: Change is a WPT change not a taskcluster change for the decision task.

Next steps? Merge it. And now we can implement it.

### Contact points for each browser [Link](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/issues/140)

Anything needed from the browsers?

Where do we want to record this information?


~~Each vendor create a GH team~~

Next steps?
- (jgraham, sam, jcscottiii) Add to the META.yml in the root.

### Don't make WebDriverExceptions force-fail the test [Link](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/40058)

OK to merge?

jgraham: Technically needs a RFC because it is a behavior change. But if we are all here and agree and discuss it, it should be fine.

Next steps:
jgraham: to comment on it

---
Other Notes:
