# wpt RFCs/infra sync

* Notes archive: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt-notes/tree/master/minutes

* RFCs: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs

* Infra issues: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Ainfra+-label%3Adependencies

## Agenda Items for May 2, 2023


### mozlog release

Quick question: ETA on release?
jgraham: This week.

### RFC [131](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/131) - Add RFC to disable Chromium stability checks

Bigger discussion: How to handle followup stability check failures across Chromium and Mozilla engineers.
weizhong - How to file issues
jgraham - If chromium wants to disable the checks and investigate issues once you import it is ok. The problem is the RFC is currently worded like a universal benefit. Not everyone has the capacity to investigate once it hits vendor repositories. It can definitely be annoying when PRs are blocked on other browsers, but it's also problematic when tests rely on browser-specific timing and other behaviours.
Need to make it clear that it isn't a precedent that stability checks in GitHub CI are a bad idea.
Next steps: jgraham - will make a suggestion on the wording on the PR. That this is a good decision for Chrome engineers, but not necessarily a precedent.

Panos - Question on the implementation: Assume we are agreeing not to rmeove the test completely . Want some pointers on where to disable.
Jgraham: Sink task may need to be changed as a prerequisite.

### RFC [81](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/81) - Add testdriver.js support for forcing JS Self-Profiler sampling

Does anyone have any contacts with Andrew or with Facebook?
No recent contact.
Panos: I am happy to set a cold email to ask about this RFC if needed.
jgraham: I think we can close this. They have written a webdriver command. I don't think we need an RFC for this. If they want to submit a PR, we can have a discussion in that context.
Panos: This was previosuly part of the web perf effort
jgraham: The solution is not going to be an RFC here.

Next steps: jgraham - Comment on the RFC and close it.

Bigger Discussion: Thoughts on closing old RFCs that we are waiting on a response?
jgraham: The process of the meetings we're having now is the answers.
Sam: Not a concern at this point. Address what we can in this meeting.
Panos: We may close an old RFC and it could become open. It might be worth adding wording about exact guidelines to how we handle this.
jgraham: There might not be guidelines for if there are objections. We could write down a process there if there is no consensus.
Sam: Agreed. It is something that we should discuss in the core team.

Next steps: Define a process on how to handle the situation when there is no consensus and add that to documentation.

### RFC [117](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/117) - Remove dated tags for epoch branches

Any objections?
Sam: My view is that this should be a separate namespace.
jgraham: I agree that we have a proposal for a solution here. It would take some coordination to use these things.
Sam: Who is using them?
jgraham: Potentially Igalia. This seems to be blocked on doing the work rather than coming to an agreement.
jcscottiii: Next steps are probably to ping foolip@.
jgraham: Agreed.
weizhong: currently using the tags. 
Sam: The RFC should only affect old unused epoch branches.

### Python 3.12
- https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/33309
- https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/39373

Discussion: There are some deprecations coming in 3.12. How soon is everyone's planning to move to Python 3.12? How soon do we need to look into these issues?
jcscottiii: Panos mentioned these deprecations. Are we looking to support Python 3.12 anytime soon?
jgraham: I have had Gecko reports that we don't support Python 3.11. No aioquick for python 3.11. We have failed to upgrade to 3.11 on Gecko's side. Python upgrades are always a nightmare.
Sam: If you have all the dependencies, all the tests pass on 3.11, but it's hard to assemble all the deps. We've been inconsistent in how long these things are getting fixed. The more invasive the changes required, the less likely I am to do it.
jgraham: Looking at the changes, doesn't seem to scary. When we do finally move to support 3.12, there will be more broken items than we realize now.
Panos: Can you post a link to the aioquick discussion?
jgraham: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/39081 and https://github.com/aiortc/aioquic/pull/347
jcscottiii: Should we update [this](https://web-platform-tests.org/running-tests/from-local-system.html#system-setup) to mention a max of 3.10?
Sam: We can't be certain that intermediate versions are broken. 3.9 could even be broken now - we don't check definitively.
jgraham: I have no objection with that. We would need a reminder to update the max version in the docs.

Sam: I am typically the one fixing this because I'm the one running into it first.
jgraham: Corner cases of issues happen. e.g. broken tests on Windows.
Sam: Do we have specific tests on Windows? I thought we started those.
jgraham: I think we might now.

jgraham: I think the number of binary packages we rely on are very small. Mostly aioquick and the things it depends on.
Sam: Python 3.12 ships in October.
jgraham: We should write patches before then.
jgraham: Question for Sam, there were some PRs open about upgrading from 3.6. What is the status on those?
Sam: flake8 doesn't work very well with comments at this point. I haven't been playing around with them recently.
jgraham: There seem to be 3 or 4 different PRs.
Sam: Some work was accidentally duplicated.

jgraham: work with philip to come up with a plan to close them
Sam: Some of these changes include mypy changes within them.
jgraham: We should agree to finish things up and land the PRs without other pieces.
Sam: flake8 depends on
Sam: Mypy has some issues with how we handle our current types, and updating it will require type hinting changes.
jgraham: document which command got run for each PR
jcscottiii: Could this be a "Good first issue"?
Sam: Someone could do it, but it would be massively tedious.
jgraham: Agreed.
jcscottiii: Combine into one issue?
Sam: Yes. We should make it clear what the status is.

Action Items:
- (unassigned) Write patches to support upcoming deprecations 
- (jcscottiii) Write up an issue / combine the issues to let the community know the state.
