# wpt RFCs/infra sync

* Notes archive: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt-notes/tree/master/minutes

* RFCs: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs

* Infra issues: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Ainfra+-label%3Adependencies

* Matrix: https://app.element.io/#/room/#wpt:matrix.org

## Agenda Items for May 14, 2024


### GitHub Actions Migration

Recap from last meeting:
- Will discuss next meeting with more people.

Notes:
- James: Recommendation from Microsoft to move from Azure Pipelines to GH Actions. We need to look at blockers on our side.
- Philip: For PRs, or for full runs?
- jgraham: This was from MS that they'd like us to move. Panos knows more.
- Panos: They have asked for an update. Azure expansion they offered might be about to expire. Might get us back to a few months ago.
- Philip We had 20 parallel jobs, would that be what we go back to?
- Panos: They increased 20 to 30 for 6 months from Feb. We have discrepancies in macOS versions.
- Philip: We need capacity on GH actions if we're going to move there.
- Panos: I think that's their preference.
- Sam: Apple are planning to move some Safari runs off Azure. Initial plan was to move full runs, but not PRs. But the timeline isn't set.
- Philip: Current cadence is 4x/day for STP and 1x/day for stable.
- jgraham: We need less capacity if we are not running safari. We could probably run all the PR checks on GH Actions with the default capacity. But not full Edge runs.
- Philip: 20 parallel jobs would be enough to run full Edge runs.
- Panos: Will Safari likely have moved before August.
- Sam: Can't say at this point.
- Panos: One reason we have different scores between Edge and Chrome is different OSes, so I suspect we care. They recommend using GH Actions, so that's the path we should pursue.
- Sam: Could bring this up in the Interop group since they care about the results.
- jgraham: Could try migrating the PR jobs right away to assess difficulty/capacity, but it depends if anyone has time to do that work.

Action Items:
- [ ] Bring this up to the Microsoft team in the Interop meeting
- [ ] Migrate PR jobs now

### RFC 193

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/193

Decision: Merged

### RFC 169

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/169

Recap from last meeting:
- jgraham: Apple would have more concerns more than any one else. Especially around codec licenses. Will wait for Sam to comment.

Notes:
- James: Is there anything blocking this still?
- gsnedders: This pulls in an unknown set of video codecs, could have patents etc. If this is needed to run server then we don't want to introduce stuff that we can't legally distribute. I need to chase this up internally again.

Action item
- [ ] @gsnedders - will chase this internally

### RFC 190

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/190

Notes:
 - James: Currently default view counts subtests. This RFC would add a view that counts at the test level instead.
 - Panos: In general for the dashboard we should provide more extensibility points that are useful, but be cautious about changing the defaults. This is just adding a new setting among many.
 - gsendders - There was a PR that made it possible to add interop view for any tests. That was just a flag and we decided not to add it for incentive structures. The interop team might also have strong opinions on the dashboard.
 - Panos: Not sure about the relationship to Interop.
 - gsnedders: The pass rate shown on the home page could be construed as a metric that would therefore be under the purview of Interop.
 - Panos: I don't think that's in the scope of the Interop group.
 - Philip: I think it's clearly not in the scope of the Interop team. The charter does mention other metrics, but doesn't say that anything that could be a metric is owned by Interop.
 - gsnedders: I think it's still worth getting their feedback. There are people from other orgs.
 - Panos: Do you want more input, or for the Interop feedback to be deciding?
 - gsnedders: I think it should be given some weight.
 - Philip: Maybe file an issue on the Interop repo?
 - gsnedders: Yes.
 - Philip: Done in https://github.com/web-platform-tests/interop/issues/661.
 - James: How much time do we want to give for feedback?
 - Philip: Two weeks given in the issue.
 
 [Lots of discussion]
 
 Action Items
  - [x] @jcscottiii - Remove all the UI and just have a query parameter to change the view.
  - [ ] @jgraham - Review the RFC
  - [ ] @gsnedders - Review the RFC

### Skipping checks on draft PRs

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/46124

Notes:
 - Panos: We'll look at creating draft PRs later. Will probably drop the issue, but waiting form Weizhong.
 - Weizhong: We'll stop exporting PRs until the CL is approved.
 - Panos: I will close the PR once we have this change.

### Docker Images / GHCR

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/43361
https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/42423

- jgraham: Upgrading may lead to regressions. Also, we only have three accounts associated with the docker hub. Someone made a PR for an action to push the docker image to GitHub's docker registry. The PR doesn't look ready yet but we can look into it. This probably requires a RFC.
- James: Why does this require an RFC
- jgraham: Because someone else might be using the existing docker images directly
- gsnedders: What are Igalia doing?
- Philip: Initial PR looks like a safe thing to land, only builds manually.
- jgraham: I think so. Then we can build on top of that.
- Panos: Just landing that doesn't require an RFC?
- jgraham: No, only the final move would.
- Philip: I've approved that.
- James: Using GH registry is easy. But I'm worried about regressions from base image update. First move to GH registry and then do the update, not all at once.
- jgraham: We might need to do the work to use a GHCR image on a fork because taskcluster (did) read taskcluster.yml from master
- gsnedders: Shouldn't do both of these at once.

### RFC Process Review

Ran out of time. Will discuss at the next meeting.

