# wpt RFCs/infra sync

* Notes archive: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt-notes/tree/master/minutes

* RFCs: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs

* Infra issues: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Ainfra+-label%3Adependencies

* Matrix: https://app.element.io/#/room/#wpt:matrix.org

## Agenda Items for March 5, 2024

### Firefox tests

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/44366

Discussion: Next steps

- jgraham: A bug that only impacted release. Fix is in the next release. Pretty soon. March 19.
- sam: The interop dashboard has not updated in 2 months.
- jgraham: Agreed that it is unfortunate. We should have a way to tell these runs are failing earlier.


### Parallel tests using shared resources (clipboard)

[Issue] https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1866605

Discussion: Revisit RFC action item and issue status

- jgraham: Let's see how the discussion goes and we can talk about priortized.
- sam: keep it on the agenda until the issue is filed. Don't want it to fall off.

Action items:
- jgraham: to create an issue.


### RFC 182: Add WebDriver BiDi support to testdriver.js

Link: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/182

Discussion:
- maksim: introduces webdriver bidi capabilities. Split into two parts. There's an example of the WPT changes.
- sam: Initial thoughts: at the moment, we still have browsers that are currently not using webdriver. So we need to ensure test driver APIs can remain without the communication from being webdriver bidi.
- maksim: Something the implementer will need to be aware of.
- sam: How much can we just copy from bidi
- maksim: The idea is to do that until we run into any issues.
- sam: webkit test runner and servo are examples that do not use webdriver.
- jgraham: We could probably delete the selenium executor.
- sam: The executor could not work at all right now since nothing probably is using it.
- jgraham: Adding bidi support is good. But because there are a lot of limitations. Like testing in cross origin iframes.
- sam: There are a bunch of questions on how to implement. Like having a separate BiDi executor. And then do everything over BiDi for the BiDi case. 
- maksim: RFC suggests running one or the other.
- alex: The RFC is currently trying to be minimal.
- weizhong: For content shell, we are using protocol mode and made a PR upstream.
- jgraham: If we wanted to allow detecting which tests depend on this we could have a testdriver-bidi script or similar, but that's worse DX, and we already have a lot of boilerplate
- sam: I don't think it's worthwhile; this seems pretty similar to not implementing e.g. set_permissions commands
- jgraham: don't change anything yet on the RFC. Like sam said, make sure it can be implemented on various backends
- sam: the wording implied that but it was also an earlier version

Action items:
- [ ] jgraham & sam: Read the RFC.

### RFC 178
- https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/178

Follow up on Sam & jbedard's read through and comment

Action items:
- [ ] sam & jbedard to read through



### RFC 169

Follow up on Sam's update on opinion of the RFC

RFC: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/169

- jgraham: The author asked for a status update. Should we mention that Sam will add something
- sam: we could potentially vendor/fork aiortc, need to address that Q too

Action items:
- [ ] sam to provide feedback on the constraints


### WPT PR 44489

[PR](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/44489)

- weizhong: Should we have guidelines about using alert in those tests?
- jgraham: at the moment, it won't work. but we can make it work. Would be easier with bidi. Maybe make it work with Webdriver classic. Doing more than this would require a RFC to discuss what the API would look like. Bidi would make this easier.


Next steps are to merge

### RFC 181

[PR](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/181)

- jgraham: This could break the metadata. A bit hesitant because it is a breaking change.
- sam: In webkit (but not upstream), landed changes and changed all the expectation files.
- jgraham: Need to figure out the cases are that would change.
- sam: Only 3-4 tests that have variants that get encoded without spaces
- jgraham: They are probably setting that for the top level file name. Worries me more if we end up changing the file name. Might be a small enough breakage where we can fix those cases.
- sam: Could check using %20 vs actual space. 

Action items:

- [ ] jgraham to take a look
- [ ] sam to add details about the migration story
- [ ] if no fundemental objections, sam to add PR for wptrunner



