# wpt RFCs/infra sync

* Notes archive: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt-notes/tree/master/minutes

* RFCs: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs

* Infra issues: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Ainfra+-label%3Adependencies

* Matrix: https://app.element.io/#/room/#wpt:matrix.org

## Agenda Items for June 4, 2024


### GitHub Actions Migration

Recap from last meeting:
- [ ] Bring this up to the Microsoft team in the Interop meeting
- [ ] Migrate PR jobs now

Notes:

- @gsnedders: We said we would take ownership of running Safari. We expect to do that by the time Azure Pipelines goes away. Will have a more concrete plan to share in the next meeting
- @past: The access to Azure pipelines is not going away but just scaling down
- @gsnedders: Agreed. Will make progress by then
- @past: August / sometime in the summer is the planned switch over. Is this Safari on iOS too?
- @gsnedders: Just MacOS. Need to know the required resources for the iOS solution. Will be a bunch of Self-hosted GitHub runners. The orchestration will be somewhere else.
- @jgraham: The email should describe 1) the plan, 2) the risks if we do not have enough capacity after the plan (reduced runs)
- @gsnedders: According to Microsoft docs, OSS projects get 10 parallel jobs for free with unlimited minutes per month

Action items:
- [ ] Migrate PR jobs now (Windows only)
- [ ] @past - Bring this up to the Microsoft team in the Interop meeting

### RFC 169

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/169

Recap from last meeting:
- @jgraham: Apple would have more concerns more than any one else. Especially around codec licenses. Will wait for @gsnedders to comment.
- [ ] @gsnedders - will chase this internally

Notes:


Action items:

- [ ] @gsnedders - will chase this internally


### RFC 190

https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/190

Recap from last meeting:
  - [x] @jcscottiii - Remove all the UI and just have a query parameter to change the view.
  - [x] @jgraham - Review the RFC
  - [ ] @gsnedders - Review the RFC

Notes:
- @gsnedders: Agree with @jgraham. But will not block this.


Action items:

### Docker Images / GHCR - RFC 198

Background:
- https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/198
- https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/43361
- https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/42423

Notes:

- @jgraham: Could use a different repo for images. Or specific packages, we can set permissions. Or use CODEOWNERS to require reviews from wpt admins for Docker image changes
- @jcscottiii: I like CODEOWNERS. Permissions have been widely available. A combination of CODEOWNERS and package permissions would be my choice. Since CI agents rely on these we don't want anyone to be able to push those changes. 
- @past: I think that makes sense. It's not a common action so the latency of getting review doesn't matter much.

Action items:

- [ ] @jcscottiii: Post the comments on the RFC.

### pytest / unittest breakage

- https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/46383

Notes:
- @gsnedders: We need to redo vendoring
- @jgraham: agreed
- @gsnedders: Move to the solution that pip uses for vendoring
- @jgraham: Could move to how Gecko does it. But would be a breaking change and require a RFC
- @jgraham: But for short term, this PR suffers from a deadlock in the test. Would be nice to get this reviewed because this is blocking infra PRs. Will ping for reviews

Action items:
- [ ] @jgraham - Will ping for reviews
- [ ] @gsnedders / @all - Review the PR

### RFC Process Review

Notes:
- @jgraham: Someone should write up their concerns
- @gsnedders: Philip's concerns come from the RFC review latency and the fact that we aren't following the documented process. Which are resonable concerns
- @past: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/issues/187
- @jgraham: The process says we can merge after 1 week. But in reality we bring things up in this meeting. Definitely more than a week. The policy as written is wrong and needs to be re-written
- @past: The expectation is a rfc can be merged if it has approval or brought up here
- @jgraham: The case we need to discuss: No comments for awhile. Example 1: GH container registry contains no big architectural changes is safe Example 2: wptrunner changes require a lot more scrutiny.
- @past: what should be deadline when we fail to hold ourselves accountable to the process? 1 week is not enough. But what is the right amount?
- @jgraham: Case 1: There are active approvals.  You still have to wait a week after approvals. Case 2: There are no active approvals. Current process defaults to yes, approve. If you can't get anyone to engage, what should you do? We should require a face to face meeting
- @past: What should the timeout be for Case 1?
- @jgraham: In this case: Maxim submitted something then Philip approved and almost merged it soon after. I think bringing a topic up in this meeting should be required for something that does not have cross vendor approval.
- @jcscottiii - do we think we could create a check list of questions where if the answer is no to any of the questions, we default to the hard (w/ more scrutiny) case? Otherwise, we can expedite it
- @jgraham - Yes, we could have a GH bug template. Need to review some of the  closed RFCs

Action items
- [ ] Create a list of questions for a GitHub issue template
