# wpt RFCs/infra sync

* Notes archive: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt-notes/tree/master/minutes

* RFCs: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs

* Infra issues: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Ainfra+-label%3Adependencies

* Matrix: https://app.element.io/#/room/#wpt:matrix.org

## Agenda Items for Sep 3rd, 2024

 ### Azure Pipelines migration
 
  * https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt.fyi/pull/3970
  * https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/47181
 
 - gsnedders: 2 PRs up, one for wpt.fyi for a new endpoint to pull things from GH actions. The other is a workflow to run Safari Stable on GH actions. Panos has commented on wpt.fyi one. Haven't looked at the comments, but doesn't seem to be blockers. Need to hook up Gh actions to ping that at end of run. Current plan is to copy + paste workflow for STP and then clean up afterwards. Once those things have landed, start moving the PR jobs onto GH actions, but that's less urgent because they use less capacity. Deadline is 7th, but PR jobs aren't blockers. 
- panos: Sounds fine. I can deploy things to wpt.fyi We have a weekly rotation. I'll check that this gets deployed this week once the PR is landed.
- gsnedders: Will clean up and land right after this meeting.
- jgraham: I can look at the wpt PR.
- gsnedders: At the moment this only runs the infra tests. Will update that once the wpt.fyi side is finished. Also I need to add more self hosted runners to GH actions. That involves many annoying token things.
- jgraham: No one else can help with that, right?
- gsnedders: No. It's similar to WebKit bots.
- jgraham: Sounds like we know who needs to do what to make this happen this week. When will we remove the Azure pipelines configuration?
- gsnedders: I'll do that once it's working. Want to get runs on the same commit with both systems. Runs with both might be a bit confusing because it's unclear which will finish first; they are distinguishable on wpt.fyi but the results generation script might use one or the other run to compute the Interop score.
- panos: It's using latest macOS?
- gsnedders: Yes, both systems are. New bots will be updated to newer versions relatively quickly.
- panos: Will you also use this for iOS.
- gsnedders: Maybe. Might have more paralleism for simulators on bigger hardware, but tbd.

 ### RFCs
 
 ## 207 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/207
 
 - Panos: Does anyone else need to look? Some questions were clarified. Can we merge?
 - jgraham: Are MS2ger's issues resolved?
 - Ms2ger: Yes, I can approve.
 - gsnedders: Should we also add step_wait_promise_done as well?
 - Panos: Should that we a seperate RFC?
 - gsnedders: The `_done` variant is a pattern we have now for all the similar functions, so we should add at the same time.
 - Panos: Should we discuss that in the implementation or does it need to be in the RFC?
 - jgraham: API design typically happens in the RFC, but in this case the pattern is so well established that it could probably just be a single line indicating that there will also be the `_done` variant as we have for other similar APIs. Seems like it should be unobjectionable if people are happy with the main API.
 
 ## 208 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/208
 
 RFC adding third party Ed25519, HPKE, and CBOR libs 
 
 - Panos: No approvals, but comments have been resolved. Proposal to add some Python and JS libraries for various tests. 
 - jgraham: Haven't looked at this but I saw some concerns around binary deps, are those resolved?
 - gsnedders: I need to check internally that we're happy with the licensing status of the Python implementation that's in the proposal, but I'd prefer that to requiring cryptography binary since that has dependencies that are hard to meet in some environments (e.g. Rust, OpenSSL).
 - jgraham: Seems like we aren't ready to merge this. I need to look, gsnedders needs to check internally.
 - Panos: Might want to note that there is some already CC0 code in wpt (svg test?).
 - jgraham: Seems like some of the discussions have been resolved where there are still concerns
 - Panos: Please un-resolve any discussions that are still open.
 
 ## 199 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/199
 
 
- Panos: jgraham to update with his comments

## 178 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/178

- jgraham: Seems like this could use some wider review. I commented and my comments were addressed. Ms2ger has reviewed.
- Ms2ger: Would be interested to know if the timing question is actually defined.
- gsnedders: wptrunner implementation depends on MutationObserver. So the answer depends on when those fire. I don't remember when that is.
- jgraham: I think in the next microtask checkpoint? And you probably get one for both changes. So maybe we can make it work.
- Ms2ger: Seems like something we could check in the implementation phase.
- gsnedders: I don't think the event loop will spin. I don't think we actually define this at the wpt level. Adding that as an actual definition is not unreasonable. 
- jgraham: The gecko implementation is different here. We should add an infra test that verifies that what we expect to work actually does work.
- gsendders: The test would probably be racy.
- jgraham: I think it would still be OK to have an infra test that has to pass.

## Firefox android infra tests
- gsnedders: I marked a bunch of these tests as flaky to avoid needing admin merges all the time.
- jgraham: Sounds like I should investigate that further.
