# wpt RFCs/infra sync

* Notes archive: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt-notes/tree/master/minutes

* RFCs: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs

* Infra issues: https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Ainfra+-label%3Adependencies

* Matrix: https://app.element.io/#/room/#wpt:matrix.org

## Agenda Items for Dec 3, 2024


## Moving minutes device

- @jgraham: This service will disappear; suggest that we move to https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N9wdlGCOIlBo7_Dr7dcsgO4GIFPC8dnlb8qo_MaF97s/edit and export after each meeting. Could minute directly to GitHub, but you can't do that collaboratively.
- @jcscottiii: Did we want to use [Google Meet Transcription](https://support.google.com/meet/answer/12849897?hl=en) and only manually record action items? Cons: No live transcribing. The transcription is sent afterwards.
- @jgraham: We sometimes have reuqests not to minute certain things, and auto-minuting can be a problem for some people.


Action items:
- Next meeting will be in the Google Doc instead of in HedgeDoc.

## RFCs


### 211 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/211 - Support testdriver.js in other test types


Recap:
- @jgraham and @gsnedders: in favor in general but will comment on RFC on some issues.

Notes:
- jcscottiii: Jonathan addressed some feedback.
- jgraham: I think the same concerns still exist for gecko. In principle I think this is a good idea, but our currently implementation makes it very hard. I think we'd need some information in the manifest to allow us to switch implementations for these tests specifically.
- gsnedders: In general seems like a good idea.

Action: gsnedders + jgraham to re-review


### 214 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/214 -  Add testdriver features

Notes:
- sadym: Alternative to 212. Allows specifying testdriver features in the query parameter.
- jgraham: We use the query parameters so that WPT runner will have access to it. Need to read it but it seems pretty reasonable.
- sadym: Not sure if we should restrict it to BiDi or extend to other features.
- jgraham: I think we should specify some way to declare multiple features for forwards compatibility, but no specific use cases at the moment. Vendor specific features would be outside shared infra anyway.
- gsnedders: some tests timing out in safari. Some way to know what tests are would be good. Arguably promise rejection should be erroring the test more quickly.
- sadym: Currently if the flag isn't set there will be an error.
- gsnedders: I'm thinking of existing cases where the WebDriver command isn't supported. We should be capturing those rejections and erroring the test. But maybe in the future we could annotate some things as features to allow detecting that tests require specific commands. Specifically concerned with things that timeout, not so worried about errors if they happen quickly.
- jgraham: Agreed.
- sadym: So that doesn't affect this RFC?
- gsnedders: Correct, it's about how this could be used for e.g. vendor specifiic extensions in the future.

Action: gsnedders + jgraham Review RFC

### 212 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/212 - Introduce require_webdriver_bidi metadata tag

Recap:
- Reviewers to read.
- Alternative discussed in #214

Notes:

- sadym: We can fall back to this if there are concerns with 214.
- jcscottiii: Seems like we prefer 214? Do we have anything to discuss here?
- jgraham: Agreed
- sadym: I also prefer 214.
- gsnedders: +1. We could probably close 212 at this point. I don't think we're moving in this direction. We could always reopen if necessary.
- sadym: I wanted to keep it as a backup. If 214 is going to land I'll close 212.
- jcscottiii: Are there places to update the docs for future contributors? (so they know to use the features flag for similar cases)
- jgraham: Yes, we should update the docs for testdriver, but it's hard to make sure people read them.
- sadym: 214 already has a prototype which has some docs updates.
- jcscottiii: I'll look at that again

### 213 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/213 - Wait for document.fonts.ready before running checkLayout() tests

Recap:

- [ ] gsnedders to write a comment

Notes:
- gsnedders: Not sure what's waiting on me. Should we just land it?
- [general agreement]

### 208 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/208 - adding third party Ed25519, HPKE, and CBOR libs
 

Recap:
- [ ] @gsnedders: Need to track down the newly unresolved comments with Apple legal.

Notes:
- gsnedders: Talking to people internally about this. I should chase it up. We should check if we really need to vendor all the Python things. Or is this the question about how easy it is to have wptrunner deps that aren't in internal infra for Gecko.
- jgraham: Not necessarily a blocker, but it's quite hard work for us to update non-vendored dependencies
- gsnedders: It's easier for us when we're not vendoring libraries since we don't distribute them. There is a broader question here about what we vendor vs depending on externally. Does it make sense to have things that are optionally vendored? Then e.g. the gecko sync could vendor them.
- jgraham: Generally we could do work to imporve our sync, it's just effort. There are difficulties that don't really affect non-Gecko use, but we could e.g. get the sync to upload stuff to our pypi mirror, it's just about priorities.
- jcscottiii: Do we know in general what the legal requirements are for different orgs for wpt specifically? We don't want to prematurely restrict ourselves.
- gsnedders: Policies kick in as soon as we are distributing open source code. Can also have requirements around patent clauses. But vendoring makes things more complex. That means we're distributing vs having a dependency that we aren't.
- panos: Can we set a deadline for this RFC?
- jgraham: Could do, but I think the default action would be to reject the RFC since we wouldn't have agreement.
- gsnedders: In this case it seems to mostly be about tech that non-Chromium vendors don't want to ship.
- panos: This is a feature that only Chromium has implemented now. But we want to make this something that could be interoperable in the future. Rejecting the tests on a legal matter seems unfair and harder for other engines to introduce functionality in the future.
- gsnedders: I don't know to what extent other things already depend on Cryptography, the Python package. That might already being used for other vendors since it's widely used. 
- panos: I think that was an option that the authors suggested.
- gsnedders: The question was about whether using the non-secure elliptic curve implementation was OK, but this is also solvable by not using it.
- panos: We need an answer on what's blocking including it. Seems to be legal at Apple and engineering at Mozilla. We should get those answers time boxed.
- jgraham: Hard to prioritize doing extra work for the cases where we have negative standards positions.



## Mobile results update

Recap:
- @gsnedders: Have some pieces working with Safari. Big risk: Figuring out the regressions with webdriver on iOS.

Notes:

## Adding Wasm tests https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/49277

- panos: I don't think this requires an RFC because it's the outcome of an Interop investigation. But please review.

--- 
Topics not discussed

### Azure Pipelines migration

Notes:



### Navigating the test https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/48825

 
Notes:



## Firefox android infra tests

-
