Notes

*   Cbor Library RFC and PR https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/208  https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/49598
    *   Panos: The PR is only for the non legal problem libraries
    *   Panos: With the vendored RFC, the author should wait until that lands. Then reimplement using vendoring.
    *   Sam: No concerns about cbor and hbk libraries 
    *   Panos: Will add comment
*   Vendoring RFC https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/218
    *   Sam: Uses the same tool that pip uses to vendor its code. Should help with adding new vendored dependencies. [Files](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/pull/49752/files#diff-255d9ce2876d938b0178c17bead2cebc8f3ea5e878292b066295b029241f6740)
    *   James S. Will check with the Chromium CI team
    *   James G. Would like to see CI runs complete. Ensure that it does not regress any tests
    *   Sam: How to debug the current task cluster failure?
    *   James G: Push to a trigger branch. And send me a link. The test failure mode I am worried about: Tests importing some random library
    *   Panos: There’s a library that is downgraded? 
    *   Sam: Yes html5lib correct. It was from 1.2dev to 1.1. 
    *   Overall seems favored
*   Webtransport_h3_cert_hash_test_server RFC https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/216
    *   James G: They want to run a server with a self signed certificate. It will run like all our existing servers. Low risk. But it runs a server for only one test. Maybe they could start the server right before the test. But I’m not sure we make that easy to do. I know Google has made progress to reduce the latency of WPT start up so this might harm that.
    *   Panos: If we can’t provide an alternative, we can’t deny that
    *   Sam: I have comments on the implementation. Not so much on the RFC.
    *   James G: I’ll create a WPT PR to review.
*   Python 3.13 https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/48585 
    *   James G. Python 3.13 support is actively breaking people. Python 3.13 remove the cgi library we depend on. Someone created a pypi library. But it requires 3.10. Which we don’t support python 3.10 only libraries
    *   Sam: Do we know why it requires 3.10?
    *   James G. Someone was looking at lower than 3.10.
    *   Sam: That person abandoned the work
    *   James G. We should check that this code is the code in upstream python. It won’t work with the vendoring RFC?
    *   Sam: Correct
    *   James G: We could copy the single file into the tree
    *   Sam: Used in tools/runner/report.py
    *   James G: Anything else broken in 3.13
    *   Sam: Version of pillow. We changed the version to use a more recent version of Pillow.
    *   Panos: Could ask the person to try
    *   Next steps: James G will comment on the issue about the approach. Approach: Copy into wptserve and try it out
*   Define scope of web platform tests RFC https://github.com/web-platform-tests/rfcs/pull/215
    *   Sam: We had issues years ago about what is and isn’t reasonable in WPT
    *   James S: Any current tests that need to be changed?
    *   Sam: Web Bluetooth is a good example. There’s no path to get the tests to work outside of Chromium
    *   Panos: There’s an effort to migrate those internally. The RFC should document current reality.
    *   Sam: We are going to run into cases where there is no consensus. Our documentation is much stricter than the current practice. Trying to figure out what is tentative. The vast majority of tentative tests there is no idea of how to migrate it from tentative.
    *   Panos: Concerned with having to go to all the working groups about this.
    *   Sam: There are a small number of tests (WebRTC), that has contradictory passing requirements
    *   Panos: Will add comments to the RFC
*   Azure Pipelines migration
    *   Sam: No updates. The test changes jobs are still running on Azure pipelines
*   Navigating the test - https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/issues/48825
    *   Sam: Testharness case has something to catch this. Reftests may not have the same guards. One question with view transitions: Whether these are things that can be tested if we put them in a frame
    *   James G. Cannot support this in the current architecture. We have some ways to message back up but not the most ergonomic way. Maybe view transitions will make this a priority.
    *   Sam: Not sure we will have a good option until BiDi. Hard to accept something into Interop 2025 if we can support it.
    *   James G. Will be seen as urgent to find some workaround
    *   Next steps: Sam - Find out how important this is.
